.Dd Oct 10, 2019
.Os "Open Babel" 3.1
.Dt obchiral 1 URM
.Sh NAME
.Nm obchiral
.Nd "print molecular chirality information"
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Ar filename
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The obchiral program is a tool to print the chirality information for
all molecules in a file. It also serves as example code for using the
Open Babel library (libopenbabel).
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Dl "obchiral pyridines.sdf"
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr obabel 1 ,
.Xr obfit 1 ,
.Xr obgrep 1 ,
.Xr obprop 1 ,
.Xr obrotate 1 .
.br
The web pages for Open Babel can be found at:
\%<\fBhttp://openbabel.org/\fR>
.Sh AUTHORS
The obchiral program was written by
.An Nick England
.Pp
.An -nosplit
Open Babel is developed by a cast of many, including currrent maintainers
.An Geoff Hutchison ,
.An Chris Morley ,
.An Michael Banck ,
and innumerable others who have contributed fixes and additions.
For more contributors to Open Babel, see
\%<\fBhttp://openbabel.org/wiki/THANKS\fR>
.Sh COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2005 Nick England.
.br
Some portions Copyright (C) 1998-2001 by OpenEye Scientific Software, Inc.
.br
Some portions Copyright (C) 2001-2007 by Geoffrey R. Hutchison and
other contributors.
.Pp
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation version 2 of the License.
.Pp
This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU
General Public License for more details.
