.Dd Oct 10, 2019
.Os "Open Babel" 3.1
.Dt obrotamer 1 URM
.Sh NAME
.Nm obrotamer
.Nd "generate conformer/rotamer coordinates"
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Ar filename
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The obrotamer tool can be used as part of a conformational search
by generating random isomers based on rotating dihedral angles. These
rotamers are not conformers -- that is, obrotamer does not perform geometry
optimization after generating the rotamer structure. The obminimize tool
can do geometry optimization using molecular mechanics.
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Dl "obrotamer baseconformer.sdf > rotamer1.sdf"
.Pp
Generate a random rotational isomer of baseconformer.sdf and write
it to rotamer1.sdf
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr obabel 1 ,
.Xr obenergy 1 ,
.Xr obfit 1 ,
.Xr obgrep 1 ,
.Xr obminimize 1 ,
.Xr obrotate 1 .
.Pp
The web pages for Open Babel can be found at:
\%<\fBhttp://openbabel.org/\fR>
.Sh AUTHORS
.An -nosplit
Open Babel is developed by a cast of many, including currrent maintainers
.An Geoff Hutchison ,
.An Chris Morley ,
.An Michael Banck ,
and innumerable others who have contributed fixes and additions.
For more contributors to Open Babel, see
\%<\fBhttp://openbabel.org/wiki/THANKS\fR>
.Sh COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 1998-2001 by OpenEye Scientific Software, Inc.
.br
Some portions Copyright (C) 2001-2007 by Geoffrey R. Hutchison and
other contributors.
.Pp
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation version 2 of the License.
.Pp
This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU
General Public License for more details.
